a lot of the focus on how we fight the
pandemic
in the last few months has been
very focused on you know social
distancing and wearing masks
and washing your hands and those things
are all really really important
but it's becoming increasingly kind of
clear
that ventilation is also really
important to
working or meeting up with people in a
poorly ventilated space
is uh pretty high risk especially if
you're doing things that
are very kind of vocal like you're
speaking loudly or you're singing
and so we kind of wanted to review some
of the recent work that's been done
on how ventilation which is sort of a
very well established
um field might interact with a
kind of covid transmission and like what
do we know what don't we know
and what are the open questions research
on ventilation has been going on
actively in the uk and elsewhere since
the
late 80s and the interest really
over the last almost 30 years has been
on low energy buildings because of
concerns with energy consumption
and impacts on climate change on the
other hand if you're concerned with
pollution which is an increasing concern
but in particular with the spread of a
possible
airborne disease you really want to know
inside the building where the air is
going from one place to another
for example from an infected person to
someone
else it matters very much then what the
airflow patterns
are within the space where your breath
goes when you breathe it out
what happens when you move so you create
a wake behind you
where does your breath go under those
circumstances how much do you waft the
air around when you walk around
that matters hugely here and that's not
being considered before because it
wasn't part of the energy equation right
so there's a completely different
emphasis here which is the reason why
we wanted to do this work because we
felt understanding those issues
which is another side of the same
problem about how you ventilate
buildings
was very critical for this current
pandemic there's
two main types of ventilation
displacement ventilation
and well mixed ventilation either you
bring in
cool air through vents at the bottom of
the room
and you remove warm air through the top
of the room
and that can be forced mechanically
through fans or just by the fact that
because the air is warmer it likes to
rise
and then it goes out the vent at the top
and then the other type of ventilation
which is very common particularly in
mechanical systems
in that case what you're trying to do is
you keep the room well mixed and
maybe you have a inlet at the ceiling an
outlet near the floor
or um just significant velocities
to kind of try and keep things well
mixed there's a lot of discussion at the
moment like which of these two types of
ventilation is best for
preventing covid and it's been really
kind of interesting uh seeing that play
out because there are still lots of
questions that we haven't really
answered
and if we don't understand these then
we're not going to be able to make kind
of sensible recommendations to people
about how they can reduce transmission
one of the challenges about measuring
how we breathe and
how it interacts with the with the
environment around us is actually to be
able to visualize that and that
just of using a computer model is going
to miss out on a lot of the details
so what we did here is we used a
technique called synthetic schlerin
which we developed about
30 years ago now which is able to
visualize very small changes in the
refractive index of the ear
but like looking over the top of your
toaster you see the things behind it
shimmering
and from that we can very easily sort of
look at the convection from
our hands or our face and our heads and
also from our breath
and so every time we breathe out we are
breathing out warm air
which is then propagating away from us
if we're breathing through our mouths
as soon as obviously going to be going
primarily outwards if we're breathing
through our nose it's going to be
directed more
downwards when when we are speaking it
will depend a lot on what we're saying
as well
sort of things like sort of really
produce quite strong bursts to propagate
in a long way our mouths are continually
changing
this shape as we form the different
words in different syllables
and all this has an impact if you're
laughing it's really
the worst of all pictures because unlike
the breathing out through your nose the
air is not coming down
slowly unlike breathing out through your
mouth or you're actually breathing out
really
quite rapidly when you laugh you're
breathing from deep in your lungs of the
air which
is deep in your lungs may contain lots
of infectious particles which get
expelled
and a long way that air which is
containing highly infectious particles
is going to be able to
escape out of your body plume and out
into the environment
so unfortunately laughing's not such a
good medicine at the moment
now in contrast if we wear a mask
then we can still see the heat coming up
from the body
but the heat from breathing or speaking
is very much confined so when you put
the mask on
then inevitably there's going to be a
gap at the top
although you make the the nose piece try
to fit your nose and to
stop there being a gap there there will
be a gap because as you breathe out the
air pressure on the inside is going to
push the mask a little bit
off your face the louder you talk the
more it's going to push it off
the more the air is going to escape at
least it's going to be escaping up your
face
and being trained in this heat from the
body rather than
project it out i think my um personal
favorite take-home message for this is
really just open a window
um i think it is sort of that simple
and just have an awareness of the space
that you're in
and uh how well ventilated it is
don't have meetings in rooms that have
no obvious source of outdoor air
i think the ventilation is going to be
sort of become more and more of a
topic that people are going to really
have to think about when it comes to
this pandemic
you